README.md, before:

zeromq-playground
=================

This is a playground setup that I put together in preparation for attending [ZeroMQ CPH Community Meetup with Pieter Hintjen](http://www.eventbrite.com/e/zeromq-cph-community-meetup-with-pieter-hintjens-registration-10826864443?utm_campaign=event_reminder&ref=eemaileventremind&utm_medium=email&utm_source=eb_email&utm_term=eventname)

It is a vagrant box with docker installed and some docker containers for running [ØMQ](http://zeromq.org/).

The box also includes containers and configuration for using Skydns and Skydoc (DNS based service discovery for docker) allowing containers to reference each other by dns name instead of ip address.

Install
-------
To use this setup you need to install:

* [Virtualbox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
* [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)

I am using this setup on Linux, but it should work on Mac and Windows as well.

Get
---
Clone this repository and start the box:
```
git clone https://github.com/madscoaducom/zeromq-playground
cd zeromq-playground
vagrant up
# time for coffee
```

Run
---
Here are instructions for running the [ØMQ zguide](http://zguide.zeromq.org/) Hellow World example in Python. The source to zguide examples are included on the image, look in "zguide/examples".

**NOTE** that the standard examples are written for a singlehost setup, so some tweaking is needed for them to work here.

I have tweaked two of the examples and included the code in the app folder including run scripts.

For below examples when it says "Open a terminal and run", it expects you to be inside vagrant image in app folder:

```
vagrant ssh
cd app
```

#### Hello World

Open a terminal and run:
```
./hwserver.sh
```

Open another terminal:
```
./hwclient.sh
```
You should see the server and client talking.


#### BStar
Open a terminal and run:
```
./bstarprimary.sh
```

Open another terminal:
```
./bstarbackup.sh
```

Open a third terminal:
```
./bstarcli.sh
```

Now the primary and backup are connected, and the client connected to the primary. 

If you kill the primary:
```
    sudo docker kill primary
```

You should see the client switching to use the backup.

Learn more about the fun things you can do with [Skydoc](https://github.com/crosbymichael/skydock) and [Skydns](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns)

Other clients
-------------
Currently I have published a docker container with Python ØMQ bindings, but you can easily build others with your [prefered language bindings](http://zeromq.org/bindings:_start).

Simply:

* Copy pyzmq folder
* Edit Dockerfile
* Build docker image

```
docker build --rm=true -t <name of conainer> .
```
(Notice the trailing '.')

To run your new container, look in pyzmq.sh for an example, or lookup the [docker run](http://docs.docker.io/en/latest/reference/commandline/cli/#run) docs.

ToDo's and Issues:
------------------
* Add instructions for running your own code

If you find (and fix?) issues please report them on [github](https://github.com/madscoaducom/zeromq-playground)


References
---------
This setup is possible because of these great projects and services:
* [Docker](http://docker.io)
* [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com) and [Vagrant Cloud](http://www.vagrantcloud.com)
* [Ge.tt](http://ge.tt)
* [Skydns](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns)
* [Skydoc](https://github.com/crosbymichael/skydock)

Check them out!

Commit message:

Update vagrant box to 0.2
- add zeromq directly on box
- include libsodium to support zmq curve encryption
- update docker to 0.9.1

README.md, after:

zeromq-playground
=================

Updates
-------
* Vagrant box 0.2.0:
  * Added zmq directly on the box, including libsodium for curve crypto support
  * Updated docker to 0.9.1
* Moved the Skydock/Skydns from Vagrant file to separate script.

Background
----------

This is a playground setup that I put together in preparation for attending [ZeroMQ CPH Community Meetup with Pieter Hintjen](http://www.eventbrite.com/e/zeromq-cph-community-meetup-with-pieter-hintjens-registration-10826864443?utm_campaign=event_reminder&ref=eemaileventremind&utm_medium=email&utm_source=eb_email&utm_term=eventname)

It is a vagrant box with docker installed and some docker containers for running [ØMQ](http://zeromq.org/).

There is also a script to install and run Skydns and Skydock (DNS based service discovery for docker) allowing containers to reference each other by dns name instead of ip address.

Install
-------
To use this setup you need to install:

* [Virtualbox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)
* [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)

I am using this setup on Linux, but it should work on Mac and Windows as well.

Get
---
Clone this repository and start the box:
```
git clone https://github.com/madscoaducom/zeromq-playground
cd zeromq-playground
vagrant up
# time for coffee
```
To access the image:
```
vagrant ssh
```
ZMQ tutorial is located in `./zguide`

Run with Skydock
----------------
Setup Skydock/Skydns:
```
vagrant ssh
/vagrant/setup-skydock.sh
```

Here are instructions for running the [ØMQ zguide](http://zguide.zeromq.org/) Hellow World example in Python. The source to zguide examples are included on the image, look in "zguide/examples".

**NOTE** that the standard examples are written for a singlehost setup, so some tweaking is needed for them to work here.

I have tweaked two of the examples and included the code in the app folder including run scripts.

For below examples when it says "Open a terminal and run", it expects you to be inside vagrant image in app folder:

```
vagrant ssh
cd app
```

#### Hello World

Open a terminal and run:
```
./hwserver.sh
```

Open another terminal:
```
./hwclient.sh
```
You should see the server and client talking.


#### BStar
Open a terminal and run:
```
./bstarprimary.sh
```

Open another terminal:
```
./bstarbackup.sh
```

Open a third terminal:
```
./bstarcli.sh
```

Now the primary and backup are connected, and the client connected to the primary. 

If you kill the primary:
```
sudo docker kill primary
```

You should see the client switching to use the backup.

Learn more about the fun things you can do with [Skydoc](https://github.com/crosbymichael/skydock) and [Skydns](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns)

Other clients
-------------
Currently I have published a docker container with Python ØMQ bindings, but you can easily build others with your [prefered language bindings](http://zeromq.org/bindings:_start).

Simply:

* Copy pyzmq folder
* Edit Dockerfile
* Build docker image

```
docker build --rm=true -t <name of conainer> .
```
(Notice the trailing '.')

To run your new container, look in pyzmq.sh for an example, or lookup the [docker run](http://docs.docker.io/en/latest/reference/commandline/cli/#run) docs.

ToDo's and Issues:
------------------
* Add instructions for running your own code

If you find (and fix?) issues please report them on [github](https://github.com/madscoaducom/zeromq-playground)


References
---------
This setup is possible because of these great projects and services:
* [Docker](http://docker.io)
* [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com) and [Vagrant Cloud](http://www.vagrantcloud.com)
* [Skydns](https://github.com/skynetservices/skydns)
* [Skydoc](https://github.com/crosbymichael/skydock)
* [Ge.tt](http://ge.tt), hosting the Vagrant box

Check them out!
